High in this video we're going to look at the Operate of mondial.
Now we have functional equivalents to operators in the operator module.
What does that mean.
Well think back to the last lecture where we wrote code such as the following Right.
We had a list let's say two three and four and then we called reduce on that list and we wanted to find
the multiplication of each of the elements so we wanted to find two times three times four.
So we could use a reduced function.
And of course we did that to multiply A and B together.
So we use the lambda expression to do that.
And so this would have reduced back down to two times three six times for 24.
So we don't have to do that however.
We can use the operator module the Upper Room module was created to give us a functional equivalent
to a lot of the operators in Python.
Like for example the multiplication operator.
So instead of using our own lambda here we can use a function that's defined in the operator module
and pass that in as the function instead of having to create our own function or a lambda.
So it's really a convenience but you only of course you can always use your own functions and lambda
expressions instead.
You don't have to use what's in the operator module but it's handy to have them around.
So for example let's see some functions that are available in the operating model.
But we have a bunch of arithmetic functions like for example.
And so instead of doing it all lambda a comma B colon A plus B that would return the sum.
You can just call and you can pass an ad that say to reduce function and I will then add all the elements
of that list.
Or you can use Muhl for the multiplication operator that will multiply and B.
You have also the power of the power of B.
You have the modulus a modulus B.
You also have floor division.
A slash slash bean.
And you also have the nation of A is a urinary operated only takes a single argument but it basically
returns the negative of a.
So these are just some of the arithmetic functions available in the operator module and many more.
So you can always look at the documentation and see what's there but if you're going to be using a lambda
expression or a function that basically just takes an existing operator and rewrites it so that you
can use it in a function write passing it as a function because you can't pass an operator you have
to pass a function in a lot of these higher order functions.
Then look at the operator model.
You most likely will have what you're looking for in there.
Now if it's more complicated we have more things that you're doing that obviously not.
But if it's really just equivalent to an operator it's probably in the operating module fact.
Let's look at some more.
We have the comparison and the boolean operators as well that are available like LTE for less than.
So this will test if a is less than B.
Right.
That's equivalent.
That's the functional equivalent to the less than operator will save less than or equal to.
We also have greater than and greater than or equal to.
We also have the equal operator.
Now this is the equals equals operator.
Right.
This is not the is he Q is for 8 equals equals B.
That's the functional equivalent.
We also have not equals.
Right.
A and B.
So we also have the Is and now is is a built in our name right.
So we can't use that.
So what's all that the operating model does.
It basically redefines it using an underscore at the end.
So it differentiated from the built in is function but it basically will test A is B and is not a good
test if it is not be so just functional equivalence.
And we also have functional equivalents for the main boolean operators and or and not are all built
in as well.
Again they have the underscore to differentiate them from the built in operators in Python.
We also have a bunch of sequence and mapping operators.
So for example you can concatenate two sequences or two strings using this Concat.
Right so it's the same thing as concatenating.
We also have contains this basically tests as in the oh sorry value in S.
This will test to see if the value is present in the sequence.
Now we'll see that again when we look at sequence.
In more detail we'll look at the in operator particular.
But in this case the Contains is the functional equivalent of that in operator will serve count of where
we can see how many times does Velle occur in S.
This basically counts.
You also are able to get items by index.
So this get item Eskom.
I will return the item at index i in s assuming that s of course is large enough to retrieve that item.
So this is the same thing as really saying as square bracket I right.
But this is not a functional equivalent of that operation.
You also have the set item set item is going to set S I so as square bracket I equal to.
That's the equivalent expression.
But now you have a functional equivalent if you need it.
You can also have the Lieschen so you can delete items by index in some sequence as.
Now of course said item and the lead item will only work if S is a mutable object.
So it's not going to work for topples but it will just fine with lists and you have variants that use
slices as well and we'll get to that later because we still have to look at slices in more detail when
we get to sequence types.
So we'll come back to this and then we'll come back to the operator module and see what other you know
other equivalent functions that we have that allow us to do slicing.
Let's take a look at the item get a function.
Now the item get a function is something that returns not a value but it returns a callable.
So what I mean by that.
Well let's look at an example.
Let's say that we create this we say get item and we pass in some sequence and then an index value.
So it takes two parameters.
Right so it's going to return the value s at I that we just saw that's what get item does.
It returns the value.
So if we take Ezekial to 1 2 3 we can say get item Ask.com or 1 What is that going to return.
That's going to return to right the value at index 1.
Now item getter on the other hand you don't pass in the sequence you're just passing the index that
you're interested in and what it does essentially think of it as a partial function.
It's a right really to get item needs to things it needs to the sequence and it needs the index.
Here we're essentially creating a partial function that only takes the index.
So now this is a callable.
So it's still it's going to be a function but it's still expecting it still needs the sequence itself.
So I didn't get a I is a callable which takes a single parameter the sequence object.
Right.
The one that's missing.
We had get item we have two parameters s.
Right.
And the index I.
Here we only have eyes.
So we still need to pass it the sequence.
So for example we can say F equals item get a 1.
So what is this going to be.
Well this is going to be a function call f is not callable.
That will take a single parameter which will be a sequence object and that will always return the second
element of that sequence object if it exists no matter what the sequence is.
So for example if S is 1 2 3 then f of S will return to if s on the other hand is a string also a sequence
type.
Then after the s is going to return.
Why.
Because that's the second element in the string.
So you can see that item getter and get item are very related.
There's a little bit of a difference here though.
Get item requires two arguments item get it only requires one argument because it returns a callable
it returns a function.
And now you can pass that in maybe to something that requests a function that only takes a single parameter.
Same reason why we had partial functions.
The same thing might be happening here.
We'll get to some examples later on in the in the code video and also throughout the course so continuing
to item get as we can actually use more than one index and item getters.
So for example let's say we have this list and we have this string.
Now we can say F equals item Geter 1 Common 3 come full.
So it takes a variable number of arguments of positional arguments.
So we're saying that this callable is something that's going to return the elements at index 1 3 and
4 and will return it in a tuple.
So if we call half of all we'll get to 4 and 5 because that's at position 1 3 and 4 and if we do f of
s we'll get something very similar we will get a tuple again containing the elements at index 1 which
is why and then 3 and 4 8 and all so item get a can take more than one argument and only does it just
returns that tuple OK.
So let's talk about attributes.
Objects have attributes.
Right.
Objects going to have methods that can have properties.
All these are grouped under the generic name attributes so attribute getter is similar to the item get
a function but it's used to retrieve object attributes.
So it also returns a callable disliked item.
It's actually going to return a function but that function will then take the object as its argument.
So let's take a look at an example.
Suppose my object is an object with three properties.
Let's say it has properties A B and C and maybe it's got a bunch of other ones it's got methods as well
and so on.
Let's focus on properties right now.
And we know of three A B and C is 10 B 20 and 30.
For this particular instance right.
My object is an object not a class an instance.
So now we set f equal to attribute getter a.
So now this is a callable that's going to look at the attribute a.
But it still needs the object.
Right it doesn't know where it's going to get the attribute from.
And this is why f is a callable.
So now we can call f passing in my object so it doesn't matter what the object is.
If it has this attribute a f of y object will return whatever a is.
Either it's a value that's a property or maybe it's a method.
Right.
If it's an instance method in this case they will return 10 because we're looking for a similarly attribute
get a can take more than one positional parameters.
So here we have let's say and see.
So we're looking for the other properties a and c right.
The attributes a and c.
So if we do that we'll get a tuple that will contain 10 and 40 just like we had one item get it.
The only difference is that here it's looking at attributes of an object.
Now of course we can also call it directly in the same thing with item getter.
You don't have to assign attribute Geter to a variable and then call that variable on the object.
You can do that all in one shot if you want to.
That's perfectly fine right.
This attribute of ABC is nothing more than just saying F equals attribute gather a b c and then applying
F to my object to note the parentheses that I have here to indicate then we're calling because this
attribute of ABC is returning a callable.
So we need to call it and then we'll return the tuple.
Ten twenty three we'll see examples of that in the code as well.
Now we can also call another callable.
I see what I mean by that.
So consider the string class.
Now the string class provides a method called up and that's an attribute as well.
So if S is python we can say s dot operator and that will return the upper string variant of Python.
So in this case this capital capitalized Python essentially.
Now upper is an attribute.
So we can get a hold of it using attribute getter just like before.
Right.
But attribute getter is going to return what it's going to return the attribute approach which is a
method.
So f is a callable.
Remember it can't really execute this yet.
It's saying OK once you pass in the object I will go and get up for you.
So f is a callable but when you call f it's going to return a callable because it's going to return
the upper method but Boente to that object it's going return the upper method for whatever object you
pass to f..
So let's see what I mean by that.
That said we call f of S S is the string Python.
So what are we getting.
It's returning the upper method of.
The upper method of Python.
But it hasn't called it right.
It's just the method that's being returned.
If we actually want to get Python in upper case out we still have to call it.
So now I can be called Using step just like we did here.
Right.
As Dot upper without the parentheses is what is being written by effervesce.
Now we still have to call it by putting in the empty parentheses.
So now we can do it this way.
F of s.
So that's going to return the upper method and then we call the method and then we'll get Python.
So that's a little convoluted.
Right.
So there's a better way.
I mean you can write it this way obviously you don't have to use this kind of f in between you can call
it this way but now look it even gets worse attribute getter upper as and that all it's doing.
Think of it this way attribute getter upper is a partial that will return the upper property the upper
attribute of whatever gets passed in which is the object.
Since upper is a callable we have to call it in order to call a start up.
And I will return Python as well.
So there's a simpler way that the operator module provides us called the method call.
There's a method called a function which essentially kind of wraps this up for us.
So we would say method call the Upper on Python so we would say call this method.
So basically it removes the need to call the method separately.
It's saying call this method the method is going to be called up here and it's going to be found in
whatever object is passed in here.
Here I specified a string string has an upper.
So Python has an upper method.
So this is going to call the upper method on the object string python.
And that will return Python as well.
So it's a lot simpler to use.
I will see that in the code as well but it's really just more of a convenience thing.
You can definitely do it using attribute getter that works just fine just a little convoluted.
This might be a little simpler.
All right so it can also handle more arguments we'll see that in the code as well where we can actually
have more than one method being called.
And we'll see that because obviously remember attribute Goetic and also get more than one attribute.
So we'll see that in the code.
So let's switch to code and see all that in action.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in a bit.